The gate terminal of a MOSFET is, for all intents and purposes, a 
non-linear capacitor. Charging the gate capacitor above the threshold 
voltage (Vth) brings the device to the ON state. Instead, the discharge 
of this capacitor puts it in the OFF state.

A gate driver performs two things:

1. It provides a voltage greater than Vth.

2. When a MOSFET transitions between ON/OFF it briefly passes through 
the saturation region which generates a very high heat dissipation 
(also called switching loss). The transition from one state to another 
must therefore be extremely fast to minimize the switching time, that 
means a high current which quickly charges/discharges the gate 
capacitor.

The simplest gate driver is a single BJT in common emitter 
configuration which can level shift and drive a bit the current. To 
improve the BJT common emitter configuration, a push-pull BJT pair can 
be appended.

When using the n-ch MOSFET as a high-side switch, then the gate voltage 
must be above the source by Vth, and because the source can be at VDD, 
we must either have a higher supply for our BJT driver or use a 
bootstrap circuitry.

Instead of building the gate drivers with discrete components, it's
usually easier to use ready made chips. There a different types:

1. Low-side only drivers like the TC4420/TC4429, with their dual 
versions being the TC4426/TC4427/TC4428.

2. Static high-side drivers (they usually use an internal charge-pump) 
are expensive and should only be used for application where the 
switching does not happen often enough. A well known is the LTC7004. 

3. The most common are the bootstrapped high-side drivers which must 
switch continuously to properly work. There are many variants, with or 
without combined low-side drivers, in half-bridge configuration or not.
High-side only:       IR2117/IR2118
High-side + low-side: FAN7382, IR2101/IR2102, IR2110/IR2113
Half-bridge:          FAN7380, IR2104
